#summary Steps to get involved

Interested in helping with the development of Plans? This is the place!

==Places to know==
  * *Development Mailing List*: grinnellplans-development is where almost all development-related discussion goes on. To join, either visit [http://groups.google.com/group/grinnellplans-development] or send a message to [mailto:grinnellplans-development-subscribe@googlegroups.com grinnellplans-development-subscribe@googlegroups.com].
  * *Project Notifications Mailing List*: grinnellplans-dev-notify receives notifications regarding any changes on the [http://code.google.com/p/grinnellplans/ Google Code project]. To join, either visit [http://groups.google.com/group/grinnellplans-dev-notify] or send a message to [mailto:grinnellplans-dev-notify-subscribe@googlegroups.com grinnellplans-dev-notify-subscribe@googlegroups.com].
  * *SVN repository*: This is where you get the actual source code for Plans. See [http://code.google.com/p/grinnellplans/source/checkout this page] for instructions on checking out code from the repository (note that you need to have [http://subversion.tigris.org/ Subversion] installed). The trunk should have code that closely mirrors that which is running on the Plans server. If you are planning substantial code changes that require testing, you'll likely want to take a look at [DeployGrinnellPlans].
  * *Issues*: Use the [http://code.google.com/p/grinnellplans/issues/list Issues Listing] of this project to submit and track bug reports. It's fun!
  * *Production environment*: [http://www.grinnellplans.com/ grinnellplans.com] is the primary deployment of the GrinnellPlans software. Only people with _production access_ have access to either update the source code or any other components of the environment.

==How to help==
  * Make sure you join the mailing list.
  * Have a look at the [ToDo].
  * Report bugs! Seriously, this is hugely helpful.
  * Suggest features! While there's no guarantee we'll implement your suggestion, well thought-out ideas are always welcome.